Installation

Surely on other days the old church would be less gray, its stones
less rough and soggy, the bulldozer harrows in the yard less full of
mud. Umbrella in his left hand and satchel in his, Balsam gazed around
the church and at the gritty neighborhood around it till the door
opened by the hand of a young man in a jacket and tie.

"Ah, Henry Balsam," said the man warmly. "Welcome to your congregation.
I'm deacon DEACON." Wan and thin, his face as smooth as if his light
brown skin had been stretched across it like a loom, he stood back to
let Balsam in. They shook hands, muttered preliminary words of
acquaintanceship, and headed down a hall whose edges were traced in
dust--more evidence of the ongoing renovations.

DEACON opened a wooden door leading to an odd-shaped nook, twice as
wide as it was deep. "I apologize for the makeshift office," he
said. "The renovation turned the old pastor's office into a rec room
and classroom for the children."

"I'm not fussy about space," Balsam reassured him.

"The chair of the board can't be here till tomorrow, unfortunately,"
DEACON said. "She's quite busy--head of a social work division. But
she'll text us before she drops by, and there's a trustee meeting on
Thursday evening where you can meet everyone. The installation will be
at the Sunday service, of course."

"I'm new at this work, as you know," answered Balsam. "How do you
suggest I get to learn about the church and its needs? Are there historical
and financial books I could peruse?"

"Certainly--I have a pile already assembled in the library, along with
more files of the sort we emailed you last week."

And before letting Balsam settle in the squeezed gap between the desk
and the wall, DEACON gave him a ring of keys, quickly explaining the
purpose of each, and invited him to stay for the daily soup kitchen at
5:00.

Balsam drummed his fingers on the oak desk top. During his final days
at campus and his train trip, he had maintained a staunch
practicality, knowing that he was a mere student being brought into a
pastorage for which he wasn't prepared, but promising to leap into the
role with professionalism. But the past few weeks had been wrenching,
and he could forgive himself for a few moments of dawdling.

Eventually he set himself to reading the documents DEACON had left
him, and just when his mind started to focus, a knock came to the
door.

"Excuse me, reverend," said DEACON. "Could you take a few minutes to
meet with one of our congregants?"

DEACON was replaced by a middle-aged woman with a powerful jaw and
fierce eyes, INHERITOR being her name. Behind her smile seemed to lay
a legacy. She took Balsam's right hand firmly and sat in the armchair
that barely fit next to his desk.

They made their introductions, and INHERITOR waxed eloquently about
the fine status of the city where Balsam was making his new home.

"I'm a docent in four different institutions of the city," INHERITOR
said, "for my family has been responsible for many of the great
buildings, including a museum and business school."

Balsam had already judged from INHERITOR's jeweled pendant and
clothing of gray restraint that she could speak for considerable
money. He allowed her to explain her father's good works in the city.

"His endowment renovated the central library, and we were explicitly
asked whether we wanted his name on it. We refused, because our
mission is the betterment of our community, not vulgar
self-advertisement. The building is called simply Central Circle
Library, to this day."

Without vulgar self-advertisement, INHERITOR allowed it to come out
during the conversation that her parents had been equally generous to
the church. "And that's why I dropped by to ask for my father to be
recognized with burial in the courtyard."

When Balsam gave a blank look, INHERITOR clearly showed some
agitation. So he had not been told that the current renovation had
removed obstacles from the courtyard, opening enough space for a
burial. That Eventide Church had decided to honor one of their leading
members with burial in this prominent spot. And that the pastor was to
choose the person thus honored.

"I am aware of the tradition of burial next to a church, of course,"
said Balsam. "But no one mentioned this as one of my
responsibilities."

INHERITOR waved a casual hand. "Of course we have many more pressing
tasks at Eventide, reverend. We minister to our members and to the
local residents. You'll have much to think about, obviously. So it
would be useful to take care of this burial issue and get it over
with."

"I find it an unusual responsibility, particularly for a person brand
new to the  job. I will talk to the deacon and the board and get back
to you as fast as I can. IS that acceptable?"

"Let me offer some counsel on that, reverend. You must talk to them,
of course, but you'll find that they went through the issue a good
nine months ago, when it was realized that the renovation was opening
up the space for a grave site, and they decided the choice was the
pastor's responsibility. So you'll just be unsealing old decisions
they probably don't want to revisit."

"And the pastor who was here before me didn't make the decision?"

"Unfortunately, no, Reverend George did not resolve it before
leaving. His departure was sudden."

"Thanks, INHERITOR. I'll certainly try to act on it in a timely
manner."

Balsam did not let himself consider the burial issue any more that
afternoon, but delved instead into his stack of documents. He also had
access to several years' worth of financial records, and despite his
limited exposure to organizational budgeting as a former divinity
student, he forced himself to scan them. As might be expected, the
renovation of the historic building had called for more money than
expected, so although the congregation was in pretty good financial
shape, their recent expenditures had stressed their funds, the
beneficence of the INHERITOR familiy notwithstanding.


---

A bustle around the food table contrasted with the meek orderliness of the indigent people at last night's free meal, leading Bolsom to speculate who needed the ministrations of CHURCH more.

---

Suddenly a fury coursed through him. He had been lured into a [] of
licentiousness. He was the cover-up for a crime no one would talk
about, a crime so horrible that the goodly church folk couldn't even
let themselves gaze into Pastor George's old office. By one man's
disobedience many were made sinners.
